# MIS581CAPSTONEPROJECT

The Capstone project focuses on analyzing data from Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) and the factors influencing student dropout rates. The research questions include the factors that influence student dropout rates in MOOCs and whether there is a relationship between dropout rates and the number of forum posts or active times. The hypotheses include the factors influencing student dropout rates, the relationship between dropout rates and the number of forum posts, and the relationship between dropout rates and active times. The study employed comprehensive data pre-processing and exploratory analysis techniques to analyze a dataset obtained from Harvard University. The exploratory data analysis used a correlation heatmap to determine the relationship between the behavioral data and the learner's certification. The analysis revealed that certification positively correlates with the number of chapters, active times, and events. Various supervised machine-learning algorithms were used for the classification problem. The decision tree, random forest, and AdaBoost models have the highest accuracy, AUC, F1, precision, and recall scores, indicating that these models perform the best on the dataset. Based on the study's results, explored, active times, number of chapters, and number of events significantly influenced the student dropout rate in MOOCs. The study found no significant relationship between dropout rates, the number of forum posts, and a strong relationship between dropout rates and active times. 
